README.md, before:

# Python Domain Knowledge - Vim plugin for Python 3+

Vim plugin for *Python 3+* 🐍 written in *Python 3+* 🐍 for project specific *autocomplete* of functions and classes and *automatic import filing*

- - -
* [Overview](#Overview)
* [Motivation](#motivation)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    * [Installation](#installation)
        - [Vundle](#vundle)
        - [Plug](#plug)
        - [Pathogen](#pathogen)
    * [Setup for a project](#setup-for-a-project)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Global autocomplete](#global-autocomplete)
    * [Automatic import filling](#automatic-import-filling)
* [Feedback](#feedback)
- - -

## Overview

The current state of `vim-python-domain-knowledge`has 2 responsibilities:

1. Global "project specific" autocomplete for all classes and functions that are defined inside a given projects

More about this: [here](#global-autocomplete)

NOTE: This plugin is not a replacement of [jedi-vim](https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi-vim). It provides a first-level autocomplete for everything inside the project (jedi provides detailed attributes specific autocomplete only for variables in the context)

2. Global search for all classes and functions in the projects

3. Automatically autofill the import for:
  - every class that's defined inside the project (no matter in which file)
  - every function that's defined inside the project (no matter in which file)
  - every imported stuff (from any third party library inside the project)

More about this: [here](#automatic-import-filling)

![Quick Demo](./readme_media/overview.gif "Quick demo")


## Motivation

A really common action in the python development is using functions that are not in the same file. The process usually looks like this:

1. Start typing the name (probably forgot the exact name since is long and explicitly descriptive)
2. Jump to the top of the file looking at the imports
3. Remember the place where the function lives
4. Find the right place in the imports to put the new function import
5. Start typing by autosuggesting the name using the import location
6. Jump back to the place where you want to use the function and autocomlete it

The aim of this plugin is to automate this process by generating knowledge for your existing codebase and use it to autosuggest the function/class/constant you want to use at the moment of typing + suggest the right import and put it at the right place.


## Getting Started

### Installation

#### Vundle

Place this in your `.vimrc`

```
Plugin 'HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge'
```

… then run the following in Vim:

```
:source %

PluginInstall
```

#### Plug

Place this in your `.vimrc`

```
Plug 'HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge'
```

… then run the following in Vim:

```
:source %

PlugInstall
```

#### Pathogen

Run the following in a terminal:

```
cd ~/.vim/bundle
git clone https://github.com/HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge.git
```

*IMPORTANT NOTE:* The only external dependency of this plugin is SQLite3 (https://www.sqlite.org/index.html). Make sure you have it installed on your operating system :)

### Setup for a project

*NOTE:* this should be done only once for a project

#### Go to the project root folder

```
cd /path/to/project
```

#### Open Vim and run:

```
:call PythonDomainKnowledgeCollectImports()
```

*NOTE:* It could take a few seconds until it parse the whole project's Abstract syntax tree and extract the need. If everything is successfull you should see `.vim_domain_knowledge/` folder inside you project

#### Restart Vim (This is necessary since the plugin is setting up custom autocomplete function)

#### Add this to `.gitignore` (optionally)

```
.vim_domain_knowledge/

```

#### Enjoy

![Setup demo](./readme_media/setup_demo.gif "Setup demo")

## Configuration

```
" To map your shortcut for autofilling import for the word under the cursor
nnoremap <your_custom_mapping> :call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()<CR>
```

Sample configuration:

```
" This will autofill the import for the word under the cursor when you press F9 key (in normal mode) :)
nnoremap <F9> :call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()<CR>
```

## Usage

### Global autocomplete

Start typing and press `Ctrl + x` and then `Ctrl + u` (while in insert mode)

NOTE: You can remap this ^ . It's the default vim shortcut for autocomplete from custom `completefunc`

![Autocomplete demo](./readme_media/auto_complete_demo.gif "Autocomplete demo")

### Automatic import filling

Write the full name of the function/class you want to use. Then in *normal mode* run:

```
:call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()<CR>
```

(or a keybinding for this)

![Import autofil demo](./readme_media/fill_imports_demo.gif "Autofil import demo 1")

![Import autofil demo](./readme_media/fill_imports_demo_2.gif "Autofil import demo 1")


## Feedback

Feedback is the best power for making things better. Any form of feedback is highly appreaciated:

- open an issue - for bug 🐛 or new feature proposal
- give a star ⭐
- contribute (fork the repo + open pull request)

Commit message:

Add gif for blobal search

README.md, after:

# Python Domain Knowledge - Vim plugin for Python 3+

Vim plugin for *Python 3+* 🐍 written in *Python 3+* 🐍 for project specific *autocomplete* of functions and classes and *automatic import filing*

- - -
* [Overview](#Overview)
* [Motivation](#motivation)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    * [Installation](#installation)
        - [Vundle](#vundle)
        - [Plug](#plug)
        - [Pathogen](#pathogen)
    * [Setup for a project](#setup-for-a-project)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Global autocomplete](#global-autocomplete)
    * [Automatic import filling](#automatic-import-filling)
* [Feedback](#feedback)
- - -

## Overview

The current state of `vim-python-domain-knowledge`has 2 responsibilities:

1. Global "project specific" autocomplete for all classes and functions that are defined inside a given projects

More about this: [here](#global-autocomplete)

NOTE: This plugin is not a replacement of [jedi-vim](https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi-vim). It provides a first-level autocomplete for everything inside the project (jedi provides detailed attributes specific autocomplete only for variables in the context)

2. Global search for all classes and functions in the projects

3. Automatically autofill the import for:
  - every class that's defined inside the project (no matter in which file)
  - every function that's defined inside the project (no matter in which file)
  - every imported stuff (from any third party library inside the project)

More about this: [here](#automatic-import-filling)

![Quick Demo](./readme_media/overview.gif "Quick demo")


## Motivation

A really common action in the python development is using functions that are not in the same file. The process usually looks like this:

1. Start typing the name (probably forgot the exact name since is long and explicitly descriptive)
2. Jump to the top of the file looking at the imports
3. Remember the place where the function lives
4. Find the right place in the imports to put the new function import
5. Start typing by autosuggesting the name using the import location
6. Jump back to the place where you want to use the function and autocomlete it

The aim of this plugin is to automate this process by generating knowledge for your existing codebase and use it to autosuggest the function/class/constant you want to use at the moment of typing + suggest the right import and put it at the right place.


## Getting Started

### Installation

#### Vundle

Place this in your `.vimrc`

```
Plugin 'HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge'
```

… then run the following in Vim:

```
:source %

PluginInstall
```

#### Plug

Place this in your `.vimrc`

```
Plug 'HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge'
```

… then run the following in Vim:

```
:source %

PlugInstall
```

#### Pathogen

Run the following in a terminal:

```
cd ~/.vim/bundle
git clone https://github.com/HackSoftware/vim-python-domain-knowledge.git
```

*IMPORTANT NOTE:* The only external dependency of this plugin is SQLite3 (https://www.sqlite.org/index.html). Make sure you have it installed on your operating system :)

### Setup for a project

*NOTE:* this should be done only once for a project

#### Go to the project root folder

```
cd /path/to/project
```

#### Open Vim and run:

```
:call PythonDomainKnowledgeCollectImports()
```

*NOTE:* It could take a few seconds until it parse the whole project's Abstract syntax tree and extract the need. If everything is successfull you should see `.vim_domain_knowledge/` folder inside you project

#### Restart Vim (This is necessary since the plugin is setting up custom autocomplete function)

#### Add this to `.gitignore` (optionally)

```
.vim_domain_knowledge/

```

#### Enjoy

![Setup demo](./readme_media/setup_demo.gif "Setup demo")

## Configuration

```
" To map your shortcut for autofilling import for the word under the cursor
nnoremap <your_custom_mapping> :call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()<CR>
```

Sample configuration:

```
" This will autofill the import for the word under the cursor when you press F9 key (in normal mode) :)
nnoremap <F9> :call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()<CR>
```

## Usage

### Global autocomplete

Start typing and press `Ctrl + x` and then `Ctrl + u` (while in insert mode)

NOTE: You can remap this ^ . It's the default vim shortcut for autocomplete from custom `completefunc`

![Autocomplete demo](./readme_media/auto_complete_demo.gif "Autocomplete demo")

### Global search
In normal model run
```
:call PythonDomainKnowledgeSearch()
```

(or a keybinding for this)

![Global search demo](./readme_media/search_demo.gif "Search Demo")

### Automatic import filling

Write the full name of the function/class you want to use. Then in *normal mode* run:

```
:call PythonDomainKnowledgeFillImport()
```

(or a keybinding for this)

![Import autofil demo](./readme_media/fill_imports_demo.gif "Autofil import demo 1")

![Import autofil demo](./readme_media/fill_imports_demo_2.gif "Autofil import demo 1")

## Feedback

Feedback is the best power for making things better. Any form of feedback is highly appreaciated:

- open an issue - for bug 🐛 or new feature proposal
- give a star ⭐
- contribute (fork the repo + open pull request)
